Welcome back. In this video,
we'll discuss some of
the most important constraints
involved in motion planning.
These constraints are often
crucial for maintaining
stability and comfort
within the vehicle,
as well as maintaining
the safety of
all agents in
a given driving scenario.
Specifically, you will
learn about how the vehicle
kinematic and dynamic models
constrain our motion
planning for the vehicle.
You will learn about
how static and dynamic obstacles
impact our vehicle
motion planning.
Finally, you will see how
regulatory elements
impact the behaviors
available to us during
the motion planning process.
Let's get started.
The first of the motion
planning constraints we will
work with is related to
the vehicle kinematics.
In motion planning for
autonomous driving,
as we have discussed
in course one,
the kinematics for
the ego vehicle are often
simplified to what is known as
the kinematic bicycle model.
One reason why this model is
chosen is that bicycles have
a range of acceptable
steering angle values
similar to a car.
For a fixed velocity V,
this range of steering
angle values and
delta corresponds to a range
of admissible curvatures,
kappa that the vehicle
can follow.
This means that when performing
motion planning while
using the bicycle model,
there is a maximum magnitude
of curvature that can be
executed when
traversing a given path
denoted by kappa max.
The same holds for
autonomous cars.
This means that
the curvature of any path we
plan needs to be mindful
of this maximum curvature.
Unfortunately, this
is what's known
as a non-holonomic constraint.
Intuitively, this means
that the constraint
doesn't depend on
the only the state of the robot,
but also on how the robot
got to its current state.
Non-holonomic constraints
reduce the number of
directions a robot can take
at any given point
in its workspace.
In general, non-holonomic
constraints
make the planning problem
much more complex.
Now you may be wondering
how does curvature
impact the shape of a given path
in our motion plan.
To give you an
intuitive understanding
of what curvature is,
here we have an arbitrary curve.
For each point along the path,
we can fit a circle to
that point based on
the instantaneous rates
of change of
the curve in space at
that particular point.
This is analogous to the idea
of the instantaneous center of
rotation we use to
derive the bicycle model
in the first place.
Based on the shape of the plot,
it appears different points
are more curvy than others.
So, our intuition should
be the different points
along the curve will have
different curvatures.
For example, here we have
a circle fit to a particular
point on the curve.
As you can see, it has
quite a large radius r,
and intuitive interpretation of
the curvature is that it's
the inverse of
the radius of the circle
fit to that particular point
along the curve.
Since this radius is quite large,
this point has
relatively low curvature,
which can be seen from the plot
as the point has
a more gentle bent.
If instead we look at
a second point on this curve,
we can see that it has
a smaller radius as it compared
to the previous point.
This in turn corresponds
to a point of
higher curvature and can
be seen from the plot,
this point has much more
aggressive bend than
the previous point.
While this circle
fitting approach is
useful as a geometric
interpretation,
a more precise
mathematical formulation
is given here for the curvature.
It can be computed using
the first and second
order derivatives of
the x and y components of
a given path defined with
respect to arc length.
These arc length derivatives
are given by x prime,
y prime, x double prime,
and y double prime.
The next constraint
will be discussing
is derived from
the vehicle dynamics.
These dynamic
constraints focus on
keeping the car in
a stable safe state.
The first of the
dynamics constraints is
imposed by what is called
the friction ellipse of the car.
If you recall, we
discussed tire slip and
the friction ellipse in our
bicycle model during course one.
The friction ellipse denotes
the maximum magnitude of
the friction forces that can be
generated between
a car tire and the road.
If the applied forces of
the car's engine exceed
the friction forces of the tire,
the tires will slip
on the road surface.
The turning functionality
of a vehicle
relies on the tires
gripping the road surface.
So to maintain control
and stability,
the car must remain within
the friction circle.
At the end of the day,
this boils down to lateral
and longitudinal
acceleration constraints.
In general, though the
acceleration constraints
are often much
higher than what is physically
comfortable for the passengers
inside the car.
Therefore, in non-emergency
situations we often
focus on the comfort rectangle
of accelerations.
These values constrain,
the lateral and
longitudinal accelerations
to each lie within
a range of comfort,
denoted on the
longitudinal acceleration
along and lateral
acceleration alat axis.
This is shown here,
where the comfort
rectangle in blue
lies well within the friction
ellipse shown in green.
This results in
a tighter constraint on
the feasible accelerations for
a motion plan than
the friction ellipse requires.
From the lateral
acceleration constraints,
as well as the curvature
of the path,
we have now indirectly
constrained the
velocity of the car.
The velocity of the car V
is a function of
the lateral acceleration
of the car alat,
as well as the instantaneous
turning radius of
the path r. Recall that
the instantaneous curvature along
the path kappa is
the inverse of the turning
radius of the car.
If we now combine
these equations,
we can see that the square
of the velocity is
constrained by the
maximum lateral acceleration,
alat max which is a constant,
as well as the curvature
of the path kappa,
which changes at
each point along the path.
Because of this, it's clear
that when we are generating
a velocity profile for
our autonomous vehicle,
we have to take the curvature
of the path as well as
the vehicles maximum
lateral acceleration
into consideration.
Static obstacles also provide
constraints upon
our path planning process.
Since static obstacles
such as a parked car or
a construction pylon have fixed
positions that do not
change with time,
they are often modeled
by blocking out
certain portions of
the ego vehicles workspace.
This concept will be covered in
greater detail in module
two of this course,
where we discuss
the occupancy grid map.
Essentially, static
obstacles constrain
the locations that a car
can occupy along its path.
There are numerous ways to
perform static
collision checking.
One way is to check the swath of
the vehicle as it travels
along a given path.
This swath is the union of
all positions occupied by
the body of the ego vehicle,
as the ego vehicle
traverses the path.
If the swath overlaps
with a static obstacle,
that path is infeasible.
Another option for
fast collision checking is to
approximate the body of
the car with a set of circles,
and calculate
the circle locations
as the car moves along its path.
If a static obstacle lies
within any of the circles,
then the path is
deemed infeasible.
The union of these circles is
often larger than
the body of the vehicle,
ensuring a conservative
approximation.
We'll be discussing this in
more detail in future lessons.
Dynamic obstacles on
the other hand provides some of
the most challenging constraints
on the motion planning problem.
Different classes of
dynamic obstacles
such as cars, bicycles,
and pedestrians will all
have different behaviors
and motion models.
Constraining our motion plan
based on the behavior of
these other agents will
often involve prediction,
which is subject to uncertainty.
However, if we take
the conservative approach and
constrain ourselves to
all possible behaviors
of all agents,
our motion planning problem
quickly becomes
over-constrained and impossible
to solve meaningfully.
The degree to which we
balance between the safety of
conservatism and
the aggressiveness
required for forward progress,
is an active area of
autonomous driving research.
As a simple example,
a case where dynamic
obstacles will
constrain our motion will
be at an intersection.
If two cars are entering
the intersection
orthogonal to one another,
then we have a potential
crash scenario.
One way to check for whether
a collision will occur,
is to track the angle
formed by the ego
vehicles direction of
travel and the vector from
the ego vehicles location to
the other agent's location.
If this angle is unchanging
as time progresses,
then the ego vehicle will
collide with the other agent,
and our motion planner
will need to
decelerate to prevent this.
Therefore, the dynamic
obstacle forces us to modify
our behavior based on
how the obstacle proceeds
in our driving scenario.
Another example which we
discussed in
the previous lesson was
when a leading vehicle is
present in front of
the ego vehicle.
This leading vehicle
places an upper constraint
on the ego vehicles
longitudinal velocity,
for if we exceed
their speed while remaining
in the same lane we
will eventually crash.
As you can see,
dynamic obstacles will
constrain both our
behavior planning process,
where we make maneuver decisions,
as well as our local
planning process,
where it will affect
our velocity profile planning.
We will be discussing this in
further detail in
subsequent modules.
The final constraint that we will
discuss encompasses
the rules of the road
as well as the
regulatory elements
present in the ego
vehicles workspace.
While the rules of
the road provides
some constraints to
the planning problem,
they also help us make
informed decisions
about other agents
behaviors in the environment.
For example,
oncoming traffic is highly
likely to stay in its lane,
and not try to collide with
our ego vehicle head on.
This can help reduce
the search space
when trying to predict
what other agents will do.
One of the most common
constraints imposed by
the rules of the road are
the lane constraints.
The lane constraints simply put,
are there to prevent
our motion plan from
leaving the ego vehicles
current lane unless
it is legal to do so.
Lane constraints also
inform the ego vehicle
where it is safe to perform
turning maneuvers as well.
There are other soft rules of
the road that we need
to respect as well,
such as maintaining
a time gap between
the ego vehicle and
leading vehicles in our lane.
The time gap is the amount
of time that it
would take for
the ego vehicle to reach
the leading vehicles
current position
while traveling at
the ego vehicle's current speed.
Maintaining a sizable
time gap helps
ensure safety during
motion planning,
by giving the ego vehicle
ample reaction time to
events in the workspace.
The regulatory elements
in the workspace
will also impact
our driving behavior.
The ego vehicle clearly
needs to respect
red lights and stop
signs to ensure safety,
but also needs to be
aware of speed limits in
different areas and other
dynamic regulatory elements,
such as those presented
by construction sites.
In general, regulatory elements
will have a large impact on
which behaviors are
available to us
when performing motion planning,
and will be discussed in
further detail in module five.
Now that we've discussed many of
the autonomous driving
motion planning constraints,
let's summarize what
we've learned so far.
In this video, we first
reviewed our bicycle model,
and looked at how the models
kinematics and dynamics,
as well as the path curvature
constrain our motion
planning problem.
Next, we looked at
how static obstacles
limit the locations
our car can safely occupy,
which restricts our feasible
motion planning workspace,
as well as how dynamic
obstacles impact the maneuvers
available to the ego vehicle
and its velocity profile.
Finally, we discussed the role of
regulatory elements and how
they affect
our driving behaviors.
Hopefully, this lesson has given
you some insight into some of
the constraints of
the motion planning problem
for autonomous driving.
In our next video,
we'll dive into some of
the optimization objectives
used for solving
the motion planning problem.
See you there.